Let's say I wanna have a game where
apples are raining from the sky, right?
And we have a character that
picks them up and catches them.
Things I don't wanna do with my life
is have to make a whole bunch of
different apples, right?
Now, we saw with before,
we can use clones, right?
But that's still, I could do that,
I could have an apple fall and
then delete the clone,
we can try that out.
The other trick that you use a lot
in games is when that apple's gone,
when it's at the bottom,
I can just reuse it, right?
Something, something,
garbage collection in JavaScript.
Yes, you can create a bunch of objects and
have the garbage collector clean them up.
Or you could just wait until it
leaves the screen, move it back,
something, something,
infinite scroll, I don't know.
So we can try that out.
And so what we'll say is forever,
change it by that.
And then what we wanna do is to,
basically, if it hits the bottom,
let's see, it looks like it's
all the way down to 180.
And sometimes going for strict equality
is a problem, but we'll try it out.
We can always adjust it if we need to.
If, and
then we're gonna say the y position is
less than 180 cuz it's a negative number.
So you drag in that,
we'll say less than, Equal,
let's say less than 178 so we got
a little bit of wiggle room in there.
And we can go into motion and
get the current y position.
Right, if that is true,
Then I kinda want you
to do this initial setup piece again,
so we'll grab that real quick.
We'll duplicate it, say that and that.
So fall, and
if you've fallen as far as you can fall,
go back up at the top and
do it again, right?
And so now, Let's see.
My code, y position, Change by velocity,
Less than negative 178.
My code did what I told it to,
it falls, it falls.
There's a documentary with two
Norse gods where he has to fall for
half an hour repeatedly,
this is basically the same concept.
The movie's called Thor: Ragnarok.
This is basically the same idea where it
just keeps falling into the same hole,
except this one the velocity
starts over every time.
But we can use this mechanic to
create the simulation, even,
of multiple apples falling.
Which is kind of what's happening, but
because it's happening in the same place,
it kinda feels a little weird.
So what could we do to make it
feel a little bit more natural?
If it's raining apples, do they all
come from the same place in the sky?
No, they come from all over the place,
right?
You've been in an apple storm before,
So what can we do to simulate a little bit
more like they're coming from all over
the place, by also using the same apple?
>> Pick random position, so
set x to pick random in there.
>> Yep, let's do that.
Set x to pick random,
let's do the same thing we did the tacos,
somewhere between negative 160,
and was this 220?
Negative 220 and 220, so it's not all
the way on the edge so we see it.
We're gonna do that here.
So here we'll go somewhere
between these two and the 176.
So it falls in the middle the first time,
and over here.
Next thing you know, all right,
it kinda feels like it's raining apples.
I'm just gonna look at that for
a few seconds.
All right, here's the thing that's
kinda bothering me is I kinda want
that in the beginning, too.
But you notice it's getting real tedious,
right?
Let's say I want the first apple to
be somewhere in that random one too.
I could duplicate this again and
put that there, and
now it starts in a random place.
But what if I wanna add even more logic?
This is getting annoying, right?
I'm getting tired of duplicating things.
Is there a way that we
can make our own blocks?
>> Uh-huh.
>> Yeah, where?
>> Yeah, if you go down to My Blocks.
>> My Blocks?
>> And click Make a Block.
>> Make a Block,
we're gonna call this one Reset Apple, or
Put Apple at the Top, what do we like?
Drop Apple.
Cool, and that's it,
it doesn't need to take any arguments.
So we'll define this idea
of dropping an apple,
where we'll take this code here off.
And we'll say, we've got this
new idea of dropping an apple.
And now, when the game starts,
get ready to drop an apple.
And every time that apple falls to
the ground, we'll just run this code.
Now, if we need to change any of
the mechanics of an apple dropping,
we simply can edit this right here.
So now it runs, it calls that again.
My randomness doesn't feel great,
but it is, As it goes over and
over and
it keeps moving that apple around.
Awesome, so now anytime you find
yourself doing the same thing over and
over again, right?
You can make your own block and you can
have it set to drop the apple like that.